---
layout: post
title: "FastLED for Arduino-powered LED animations"
category: Science/Programming
---

<script type="text/javascript"
    src="http://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML">
</script>


This blog post will walk through the development of the demo in the video below, with special focus on the programming. 

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1cJdcc_YAVk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Before diving in, I'd like to note that I hope to make longer animations in the future. 
The truth is that this one actually took a fair amount of time, maybe 4 or 5 hours! 
There are two main reasons why: 
    
- I wanted the animations to be entertaining and cool. Specifically, I didn't want every frame to be just the illumination of some 
    interval of lights. For each new animation that I design, more code has to be written (ie a new function to blink
    every other light, or to make a gradient, for example). This isn't necessarily difficult, but it adds to the work.
    
- I wrote the show! Probably a good hour was spent listening to the music and thinking of what patterns to display with
    the lights. Moreover, some ideas may seem good in my head, but not look as good as I'd like when animated, and will either need
    to be adjusted or to be discarded completely. Maybe I just have a slow creative process. 
    
I also had to set up the electronics and figure out how best to sync the lights with the song (discussed more below). 
The good news is that my future LED projects will benefit from the fact that I won't have to do this init work again. 

Right, here's what I'll talk about:

1) How the Arduino Uno is connected to the LEDs.
   
2) How the LEDs are illuminated in code.
   
3) How this is done in sync with the music.
   
Lorem
